# Optimizing Online Sports Retail Revenue

This project analyzes the revenue generated by Nike and Adidas products in an online sports retail store. The analysis was done using SQL techniques, including aggregation, cleaning, labeling, and correlation.

## Project Overview

The project aimed to identify ways to optimize revenue for the online sports retail store. The analysis focused on Nike and Adidas products, comparing their revenue, pricing, and discount strategies. The project also explored the correlation between revenue and product reviews.

## Key Findings

- Adidas products generate more total revenue regardless of price category.
- Elite Adidas products priced $129 or more typically generate the highest revenue.
- No discount is offered on Nike products, while Adidas heavily discounts their products.
- The company could reduce the amount of discount offered on Adidas products and monitor sales volume to see if it remains stable.
- Offering a small discount on Nike products may increase revenue overall if there is an increase in the volume of Nike products sold.
- There is a strong positive correlation between revenue and reviews.
- Encouraging more reviews from customers about their purchases may increase sales of those items with a larger number of reviews.
- Product reviews are highest in the first quarter of the calendar year, so there is scope to run experiments aiming to increase the volume of reviews in the other nine months.
- Footwear products generate a median revenue of over $3000 dollars and account for around 85% of the company's stock.

## Conclusion

The analysis suggests that the company can potentially increase revenue by shifting their stock to have a larger proportion of Elite Adidas products priced $129 or more. The company could also try to reduce the amount of discount offered on Adidas products and monitor sales volume to see if it remains stable. Alternatively, it could try offering a small discount on Nike products.

Encouraging more reviews from customers about their purchases may increase sales of those items with a larger number of reviews. The company could run experiments with different sales processes to encourage more reviews, such as by offering a small discount on future purchases.

Finally, since the product reviews are highest in the first quarter of the calendar year, there is a scope to run experiments aiming to increase the volume of reviews in the other nine months.
